SLIDE:1
Good morning judges, I am Ashutosh Tripathy and this is my partner Ayushman Sahoo. Today we are here to present our project CARES.

SLIDE2:
problem at hand goes something like this:

The lack of adequate protection measures has led to a high rate of accidents involving cattle, resulting in injuries, fatalities, and economic losses. 
moreover

Tagging of cows is done by unethical means like hot branding and tatoos. the tracking solutions are also obselete.

SLIDE3:
a/c to 20th livestock census there are over  5million stray cattle on roads

statistics from major indian cities state that over 28.4% of all road accidents are because of cows.

SLIDE4:
here is the the chart of all major livestock species.
we can see cattle and buffalos consist of the majority.

SLIDE5:
Here is the graph comparing cattle population between 2012 and 2019.
we see an increase in cow population through the years. 

SLIDE6:
Imagine you are riding your bike at night on the NH. You are in themiddle lane and on your right there is abig big lorry and infront of you there is van moving very slow. So you decide to overtake to the left most lane, but there is herd of cows sitting there. You dont have any time to react to this situation so you collide with cow and fly off from the bridge.In such situations either you don't have time to react or you can't see the cow in the dark.








Case 2:
Now, in second case, biker is able to see the cow's reflective strip and avoid collison. Authorities will not be informed and evrerything else will be similar to case 1.









IMPLEMENTATION:
this will be implementated in two parts there will be a subsidy on the units sold to farmers and cattle owners and we will also be implementing a subscription model for when the cow dies the farmer can return the unit and claim the security money
.
further upgradations:
down the road the product can be upgraded by making it out of hydrophobic polycarbonate composite material due to which mud and water won't even stick to it and make the device very durable. Battery efficiency can be increased by using 600mAh Li polymer battery. All these can be put together into a compact design.

THANK YOU for your patience hearing, you may now ask any quries while we demonstrate.














Introducing CARES: a groundbreaking solution to prevent accidents involving stray cattle. Our sensor-based system not only ensures high visibility at night but also monitors the health of the cattle in real-time. It's a comprehensive approach to road safety, safeguarding lives and promoting animal welfare. Thank you for your attention.









