SLIDE 1:
Good morning judges, I am Ashutosh Tripathy and this is my partner Ayushman Sahoo. Today we are here to present our project CARES.

SLIDE 2:
problem at hand goes something like this:

The lack of adequate protection measures has led to a high rate of accidents involving cattle, resulting in injuries, fatalities, and economic losses. 
moreover
Tagging of cows is done by unethical means like hot branding and tatoos. the tracking solutions are also obselete.

SLIDE 3:
a/c to 20th livestock census there are over  5million stray cattle on roads
statistics from major indian cities state that over 28.4% of all road accidents are because of cows.

SLIDE4:
here is the the chart of all major livestock species.
we can see cattle and buffalos consist of the majority.

SLIDE5:
Here is the graph comparing cattle population between 2012 and 2019.
we see an increase in cow population through the years. 

SLIDE6:
Imagine you are riding your bike at night on the NH. You are in themiddle lane and on your right there is abig big lorry and infront of you there is van moving very slow. So you decide to overtake to the left most lane, but there is herd of cows sitting there. You dont have any time to react to this situation so you collide with cow and fly off from the bridge.In such situations either you don't have time to react or you can't see the cow in the dark.

SLIDE 7: 
we try to overcome this problem with our soultion:

We provide a sensor based monitoring system along with high visiblity strip and LEDs to make the cow visible in the dark. It has features like live location tracking, cattle identification system and vitals monitoring systems.

we can broadly divide its functioning into 3 cases.

SLIDE 8:
Case 1:
There is no rider, cow is just existing somewhere. The sensors will collect its vitals like heart rate, oxygen level and temperature. Then this data will be sent to the database, along with its live location every 5 mins. We can use location data to combine it with Google Maps for crowd mapping. If any abnormalities are detected in its vitals, authorities will be informed.

SLIDE 9:
Case 2:
Now, in second case, biker is able to see the cow's reflective strip and avoid collison. Authorities will not be informed and evrerything else will be similar to case 1.

SLIDE 10:
Case 3:
In the third case, like in NH scenario, the collison is inevitable. The accelerameter and the gyroscope will detect the collison and inform about it to the authorities. It will send the live vitals and location of collision. Just in the case when the cattle manages to move to different location, it will also send live location.

SLIDE 11:
Now comes the question of why one should spend so much money on a single animal?

Lives of both human and cows are at risk. Cows are considered sacred in India. Death of such auspicious being causes social unrest. Overall a single collision can cost upto 1 Cr. You can look at the flow chart to see the cost addition.

SLIDE 12:
Our product puts an great impact on everyone. The farmers and cattle owners can keep track of the vitals and location with this affordable device. These helpless animals would get proper medical attention. Our device also helps the human involved in the accident. With the help of crowed mapping, we can reduce travel time by suggesting alterantive routes where cattle density is less.

SLIDE 13:
In northen states, police have tried to overcome this problem by using passive means such has reflective paint and strips. 

SLIDE 14:
We try to make something like this, this is the AI rendering of our model. [RAW IMAGES//Explain the making process]

SLIDE 15:
This will be implementated in two parts there will be a subsidy on the units sold to farmers and cattle owners and we will also be implementing a subscription model for when the cow dies the farmer can return the unit and claim the security money

SLIDE 16: 
further upgradations:
down the road the product can be upgraded by making it out of hydrophobic polycarbonate composite material due to which mud and water won't even stick to it and make the device very durable. Battery efficiency can be increased by using 600mAh Li polymer battery. All these can be put together into a compact design.

SLIDE 17:
THANK YOU for your patience hearing, you may now ask any quries while we demonstrate.
















Introducing CARES: a groundbreaking solution to prevent accidents involving stray cattle. Our sensor-based system not only ensures high visibility at night but also monitors the health of the cattle in real-time. It's a comprehensive approach to road safety, safeguarding lives and promoting animal welfare. Thank you for your attention.








